# IB-DP-ECON-HL
Discription
This is a personal note taken by a Chinese IB DP learner during it's econ class.

---

## Unit 1 - Introduction to economics

---

## Unit 2 - Microeconomics

---

## Unit 3 - 

#### 3.1.1
##### Measuring natinal income
Natrional income is the total value of economic activity for a country. (Measuring the size of the economy)
1. **Income method**
   The total value of income earned by house holds in the form of wages (paid to labor), interst (paid on capital), rent (paid to land owners), and prodifs (paid to exterpreneure). The does not include transfer payments (rentriemrnt/unempoyment benefits, scholarshipe) as they are not earned through economic activity.
   
2. **Output method**
   
   
3.**Expenditure method**

##### Types of national income
**Gross DOmestic Product (GDP)**
The measures th emoney value of all final goods and services (through the income, output, or expenditure methods) produced in a country in one year (but is often also broken in to quarerly figures).

**Gross Nathonal Income (GNI)**
GNI is the total income generated by a country and is calculated by adding nt property income from abroad to GDP.
GNI = GDP + net property income

***Why in our dayliy life we see GDP mentioned more than GNI?***
*GDP can give us a better understanding of a country, a better idea of the economic ability of that country. And also, when this money is being generated in domastaically, all the flow of that money are staying inside of the country.*

#### Further calculations of national income
**GNI per capita**
A measure of GNI per heading of population. This is useful for making comparisons between clj tries and for meansuring a country's economic development.

$Pressure = + Investment + All the government spending \frac{Forece}{Area}$

**Real GDP**
Adjusting for inflation allows national income figures to be effectively compared over time and measure economic growth.
E.g. 
if a country's noominal GDP incrases by 5% but thay country's inflation rate was alse 5%, the economy will not have grown during that time period.

**Economic growth and the business (trade) cycle**
**Economic growth** is defined as an increase in a country's real GDP oever time, measured by the percentage increase in real GDP oever one year.

$Growth rate = [\frac{GDP for current year - GDP for previous year}{GDP for previous year}] * 100%$


******

Definition of aggregate demand'
qggregate demand 

AD = consumption + investment + government spending + (exports - imports)


The aggregate demand (AD) curve

The aggregate demand curve shows the relationship between the average price level of an economy and the demand for the putput of the economy (represented by real GDP). The average price level of the exonomy is the average prce of all goods and sercices produced in an exonomy at a given proint in time.

Components of aggregate demand (and their determinants)
1. Consumption (C) is household spending on final goods and services. Spending on intermeiate goods (mansufactureres selling goods to retailers) is not included in consumption. Consumption spending in dveloped countries accounts for around 70% of total GDP and is even higher than this in developing countries.
Determinants of consumption:
- household income: There is 
- interest rates:
- consumer confidence:







